here in Southern California we love our
seafood but did you know that you don't
always end up with what you thought you
were buying it turns out a lot of it's
mislabeled do you always trust the
labels I have no choice I'm pretty sure
from one time to another I bought things
that perhaps were not labeled the way
they were supposed to be here
in fact stores and sushi restaurants in
California mislabeled seafood more often
than retailers in any other state
California fared among the worst in the
nation having some of the highest
mislabeling rates greater than the
national average that was the finding
from Oceana a nonprofit organization
dedicated to protecting the world's
oceans over the last few years they
tested seafood from grocery stores and
sushi restaurants in Southern California
a staggering 52 percent of it was
labeled incorrectly with snapper and
tuna at the top of the list to better
protect our health our economy and our
oceans it's essential that seafood be
labeled correctly
so how can you be sure that the fish you
buy is exactly what you think it is one
way is to go right to the source at dory
fleet in Newport Beach people line up
early to get the freshest fish possible
and it doesn't get much fresher than
this fishermen have been selling the
catch of the day straight to chefs
retailers and the public for more than
100 years watch your fingers
stop Brennaman is a fourth-generation
fisherman he thinks the best way to arm
yourself against seafood fraud is to
know the product and the seller are
there things that you can tell a
customer having just fished that out of
the ocean that somebody running a market
wouldn't be able to tell a customer yeah
I can guarantee the freshness some
markets the fish has changed hands a few
times from the fishermen to the buyer to
the processor to the market here you
know I can guarantee it's fresh it's I'm
the only one that's touched this fish
you know I can show them the color of
the gills and the eyes and you know the
slime on it it's only 9:00 a.m. and
Dorrie fleet is pretty much cleared out
for the day so where do you go if an
early morning trip to the fish market
isn't exactly practical well that's
where a company like Santa Monica
seafood comes in at Santa Monica seafood
they're really careful about labeling
fish and it's easy for them to know that
this is Scottish salmon fillet versus
troll king salmon fillet because it came
from their own seafood distribution
plant in Rancho Dominguez yep just like
that after a minor wardrobe adjustment
and a personal introduction to the
product I got a tour from their head of
purchasing Logan Kok so this is like a
warehouse it's like IKEA this is this is
like a Nakia what do you think is that
all of this fish comes in and out of
here in less than 48 hours oh so it's
not like a warehouse is you're not it's
it's short torn short term story very
very short term great he gave me a quick
lesson and how they size up the fish
they buy a lot of those fish come in
with the skin on so it's easy to
identify so we have a lot of confidence
for ourselves in checking what we
received
but consumers don't always buy fish with
the skin still on
in fact we usually buy it when it looks
like this for example this is Pacific
halibut from Alaska or British Columbia
whereas this is cortez halibut this is
from Mexico so it's cortez halibut
imagine this may be a smaller piece just
a portion of it cooked on a plate you
can't really tell or take these salmon
fillets they look alike and they're both
farmed but ones more expensive than the
other this one is farmed in British
Columbia this one is farmed in Scotland
so this fish is different in that the
fat content and in a lot of other things
so this is a more valuable product the
more this is a more valuable part it's
from a specific area the fat content is
different but it's the same size same
species so that's difficult things get
even more confusing when fish have
multiple names which may raise health
concerns at the sushi bars that created
this term Paul white tuna and it's not
even a tuna now the problem with using
escolar and calling it white tuna and
people thinking that it might be a tuna
is that there are certain facts in this
there are extra fats that cause event
are highly diuretic eaten in abundance
after you know maybe three or four
ounces in the sitting can be really bad
especially for older or me and
compromised people even an expert like
Logan still puts his fish to the
ultimate test DNA DNA testing about four
times a year we batch them all up frozen
we send them off to Florida so far
pretty much everything has come out as
expected there's one more reason to know
what you're eating the risk to wild fish
populations wouldn't you want to know if
you were buying seafood that's not
sustainable as a consumer what can I be
doing to arm myself with the right
information so that I can make an
intelligent choice about where I buy my
seafood what you need to do is ask and
you need to also do a little homework on
your own and understand what the nuances
are between the different farming
practices that might occur with the
particular species that you're talking
about you can also look for
certifications
a SC there's also be AP which is best
agricultural practices those
certification labels look like this and
if you want an up-to-date list of which
fish are okay to buy check out our
website for a link to seafood watch but
what about restaurants how do they know
where their fish is coming from new
technologies like fish tracks are
empowering retailers and customers alike
by tracking each individual fish with a
unique marker basically there's a code
that goes along from the boat literally
to the plate and so the servers and
chefs should be able to track that fish
and tell you exactly where it came from
but California State Senator Alex
Padilla wants even more accountability
he's proposing a bill that would require
retailers to use FDA approved names of
fish no renaming allowed it's gonna be
good for our public health and it's
gonna be good for the health of our
oceans as well we need to not be afraid
of eating seafood it's better for your
health and it's better for the
environment as long as we're eating it
from a responsible source so ask the
question ask your restaurant ask your
retailer where this comes from and
that's really the best thing that you
can do when it comes to buying seafood
there are no guarantees but knowledge is
power I'm Cara Santa Maria for SoCal
connected